# Table of Content
<!-- toc -->
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Run a Sandbox ide to test plugin](#run-a-sandbox-ide-to-test-plugin)
- [Configuring the sandbox IDE](#configuring-the-sandbox-ide)
- [Configuring the platform](#configuring-the-platform)
- [Build the plugin archive](#build-the-plugin-archive)
- [Other important tasks](#other-important-tasks)
<!-- /toc -->

*to update toc, please read [this page](../../hack/README.md).*

# Requirements
To build the project, you will need the following requirement

* JDK 1.8
* OPA binary (must be in the path, check version in [the readme](../../README.md))
* IntelliJ (community or ultimate version)

It's optional but we recommend you to install the following IntelliJ plugin:
* [Grammar-Kit](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/6606-grammar-kit) to get highlighting of the grammar file.
* [PsiViewer](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/227-psiviewer) to view the AST of Rust files right in the IDE.

# Setup 
Just clone the project and execute the tests to ensure everything is ok.

```bash
# clone the project 
$ git clone git@github.com:vgramer/opa-idea-plugin.git
$ cd opa-idea-plugin

# run tests
$ ./gradlew :test 
  
> Task :compileKotlin
w: /Users/vince/workspace/perso/final/opa-idea-plugin/src/main/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/ide/actions/CheckAction.kt: (21, 13): Variable 'editor' is never used
w: /Users/vince/workspace/perso/final/opa-idea-plugin/src/main/kotlin/org/openpolicyagent/ideaplugin/openapiext/CommandLineExt.kt: (86, 29): Unnecessary safe call on a non-null receiver of type OutputStream

Deprecated Gradle features were used in this build, making it incompatible with Gradle 7.0.
Use '--warning-mode all' to show the individual deprecation warnings.
See https://docs.gradle.org/6.3/userguide/command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_warnings

BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 20s
15 actionable tasks: 13 executed,2 up-to-date

```

# Main Gradle tasks
* `./gradlew :plugin:buildPlugin` -- fully build the plugin and create an archive at `plugin/build/distributions` which can be installed into your IDE via `Install plugin from disk...` action found in `Settings > Plugins` menu.
* `./gradlew :plugin:runIde` -- run a development IDE with the plugin installed. 
* `./gradlew :test`
* `./gradlew clean :plugin:verifyPlugin` -- verify the plugin binary compatibility. More information [here](https://github.com/JetBrains/intellij-plugin-verifier). 

**note: The `:` in front of the task name is important because now there are several Gradle modules.**


# Configuring the sandbox IDE
You can use the Gradle task `:plugin:runIde` to run sandbox IDE of your choice (IntelliJ or PyCharm) with these plugins 
installed:
 * opa
 * psi viewer

Once the sandbox IDE has started, you will have to create or open an existing project to test the plugin. 

In most of the case, we will only need to run IntelliJ as a sandbox IDE. But it may be useful to run another IDE to test
interoperability. For example, even if other IDE than IntelliJ can not create a `rego project`, it can open it.
 
You can choose which sandbox IDE to run, by setting the property `baseIDE` in [gradle.properties](../../gradle.properties)

*Note: Sometime you may need to reset your sandbox, you can use the task `clean` to do it.*

# Configuring the platform
For compatibility issue, one plugin archive is only compatible with one platform version(check [architecture](architecture.md#platform-version)
for more information)

You can choose which platform version to use by setting the `platformVersion` property in [gradle.properties](../../gradle.properties).  
This version will be used for compiling and sandbox IDE.

# Build the plugin archive
Run the task `:plugin:runIde`, the plugin distribution (ie the`zip`) will be generated in `build/distributions/opa-idea-plugin-<version>-<platform_version>-<chanel>.zip`

Once again because one plugin distribution in only compatible with on platform version, you have to run this command as
many times as supported platform version. Don't forget to change the targeting platform version between each run.

# Other important tasks
The `lexer` and `parser` code which are generated by tools are not committed in `git`. They can respectively be generated
by the tasks `:generateRegoLexer` and `:generateRegoParser`. 

These tasks are linked to the `KotlinCompile` task so if you try to build, test or run the sandbox ide, the lexer and 
the parser will be automatically generated.

The code is generated in the [gen folder](../../src/main/gen). If you want to reset the generated, just delete the
content of the gen folder and launch tasks `:generateRegoLexer` and `:generateRegoParser`.

 # Configure IDE to automatically add license header
 If it's not already done, please install the [copyright plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/13114-copyright/).
 This plugin will automatically add the license header when you create a file.
 
 To configure it , open the `Settings / Preferences dialog` and select `Editor | Copyright`. Create a new profile with 
 this license header:
 
 ```
 Use of this source code is governed by the MIT license that can be
 found in the LICENSE file.
 ```
 
 To check if project file contains the license header, run the script `hack/check-license.sh`
 
 ```
 $ hack/check-license.sh
   Checking files contains license header...
   Check OK
 ```